Okay, so let's have a look at TTLs.
So a record TTL is a Time To Live.
And let's take this example where a client is accessing
our DNS Route 53 and a web server.
So we do a DNS request for myapp.example.com,
and we get an answer from the DNS,
which is saying, hey, please, this is an A record.
Here is the IP, and there is a TTL,
maybe a TTL of 300 seconds.
So TTL is saying, hey clients, please cache this result
for the duration of the TTL.
So for 300 seconds,
the client is going to cache the results.
That means that if the client is requesting again
or accessing the same host name,
what's going to happen is that
the client will not issue a query to the DNS system,
because it already knows the answer,
because the answer has been cached,
and we're still within the cache period, so the cache TTL.
The idea behind this
is that we don't want to query the DNS too often,
because we don't expect records to change a lot,
and so, therefore, using the response it has,
the client can access our web server
and do HTTP request and responses.
So we have, you know, two extreme cases.
For example, if you set a high TTL of, say, 24 hours,
then this is going to do a lot less traffic on Route 53,
because less clients are doing requests,
because the result are cached for 24 hours,
and, possibly, while the client will have outdated records.
If somehow you want to change the record,
you will need to wait 24 hours
to make sure that all your clients
will have the new records in their cache.
If you said set a low TTL,
for example, 60 seconds, at the opposite,
then it's going to do a lot more traffic on your DNS,
so a lot more dollar you're going to spend,
because you get price per how many request
do reach Route 53.
But the records will be outdated for less time,
so it's quicker for you to do a record change,
and it's easier to change records overall.
So it's up to you, really,
to see what a good TTL or low TTL is.
If you plan on changing a record,
the idea is that sometimes
you will decrease the TTL for, say, 24 hours,
and then when you know that all the clients
have a new TTL that is low,
then you change the record value
which gets updated for everyone,
and then you increase the TTL.
This is a strategy.
So the TTL is mandatory for every record
except the Alias record that we'll see in the next lecture.
So let's have a look how TTL works in the console.
So let's have a look at how Time To Live works.
So let's create a new record,
and this one is going to be called
demo.stephanetheteacher.com,
and the value of it is going to be
one of the EC2 instances we know.
So let's take the one in eu-central-1.
So I'm gonna take this EC2 instance
and paste the value of it.
And then for the TTL, we're going to set two minutes.
So to do so I'm going to click twice on this minute button.
So the TTL is now 120 seconds.
So let me create this record.
And now my record has been created.
So it is an A record pointing to a specific IP
at demo.stephanetheteacher.com.
Now, I want to show you that the record is working,
but Firefox is not very nice with me.
So if I try to open this in Firefox
it's going to give me a problem.
So this is not something I can fix easily,
so I'm going to use Google Chrome on the right-hand side
to show you this.
So if I do demo.stephanetheteacher.com on Google,
then automatically it should direct me to, yes,
my eu-central-1 instance.
So that means that this record, this A record,
is fully functioning.
And I can also make sure of that,
for example, if I'm using CloudShell.
So if I clear this and do an nslookup
on demo.stephanetheteacher.com,
as you can see, the address is correct.
And if I do a dig command on this, then we get an answer.
And there's a cool number that we're showing here,
so the answer section, there's 115.
So the idea here, that's because I did do a DNS query.
Then the record get cached for 120 seconds.
And if I retype again this dig command right here,
as you can see the number got down to 98.
So that means that for 98 seconds,
actually, I will get the same response,
because, no matter what,
this is what's cached on my computer.
So if I'm very quick
and I go to this record right here and I edit it,
so instead of this IP, I want to go to ap-southeast-1,
so we'll use the first IP in my list and save this.
So even though this record was being updated, okay,
if I go into CloudShell and, again, do this dig command,
as you can see, the insert is still the same as before.
That's because for 66 more seconds
this is going to be cached.
And if I go to Chrome, I think I was fast enough,
I go to Chrome and refresh this page,
as you can see, I still have the answer from eu-central-1.
And this is because, again,
my record got cached for two minutes.
So when the cache is expiring, then only then
my command line interface or my Chrome web browser
will ask again Route 53 for the value of this record.
And then, again, will I get the answer
and will be redirected to this new IP.
So the best way to check it is just to wait.
So I'm going to wait maybe one more minute
and then get back to you.
Okay, so it's been a minute
and now if I refresh my web browser,
as you can see now, I get a different Hello World
and this time it's from ap-southeast-1b.
And if I go into my CloudShell and do the same dig command,
then, as you can see, there's a new TTL, so 120 seconds,
and there is a new IP right here
which is the IPO menu server.
So this was a cool demo of the TTL.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.